
.. _../pages/l10n/displaysettings#display_settings:

Display settings
****************
On this page, we're putting together a list of display settings that are needed
or preferred for each language. If your language isn't represented, or if the
information is incomplete in some way, please edit it or add to it. Some tips
for developers are available at the :wiki:`developers/styling` guidelines.

For many languages written in Latin scripts without diacritics, the default
settings are probably OK. 

List the fonts in order of preference, even if they are not widely available.
Browsers will take the first font in the list that is available. If a certain
glyph (character) is not available, it will continue in the list trying to find
a font to display the glyph. Please specify your choice of Serif or Sans with
the font name where relevant.

If a font-size adjustment is necessary to display your language readably, input
it as a percentage relative to 100% (e.g. 130% for a size of 30% larger than
the default). Input a percentage which should create a font size equally
readable with the ordinary Latin script at the default size. Remember to take
your resolution, browser settings, etc. into account. Your browser's setting
for the minimum font size should override a smaller font size, so please make
sure your browser preferences don't overrule what you specify here.

Underlining hyperlinks is a common practice, but a nuisance for some languages,
especially those which have a diacritic or mark of some kind underneath the
character. Indicate the ideal link-decoration for your language. If underlines
don't work, perhaps overlines do, or links becoming bold when the mouse hovers
over them. Colour-specific decoration is probably not ideal here. In any case,
the mouse in your browser will usually change to a hand when it passes over a
link, so links don't **have** to be marked otherwise.

If your language uses a different number system (such as many languages from
the middle and far east), you can indicate it. Please indicate if not all
readers of the language prefer the number system (like for Arabic).

If you need to specify another setting, add a column to this table and input
the information. To specify the special characters for your language that
Pootle should provide during editing, see
:ref:`pootle:characters#special_characters`.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - ISO
     - English name
     - Fonts in order of preference
     - Font size adjustment
     - Hyperlink decoration
     - RTL
     - Number system
   * - ar
     - Arabic
     - Tahoma, Nazli, DejaVu Sans
     -
     -
     - Yes
     - Some prefer Arabic-Indic digits
   * - bn
     - Bengali
     - NikoshLightBan, Noto Sans Bengali, Kalpurush, Siyam Rupali, SolaimanLipi, Sagar, Akaash
     - 110%, line-height:120%
     - ?
     - No
     - Use the Bengali number block from U+09E6 to U+09EF. Use Indian numbering system: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indian_numbering_system. Lakh is "লাখ" but crore is coti "কোটি".
   * - fa
     - Persian
     - Terafik, Traffic, Roya, Nazli, Nazanin, sans
     - 120%
     -
     - Yes
     - Eastern-Indic digits
   * - el
     - Greek
     - Dejavu
     -
     -
     - No
     -
   * - he
     - Hebrew
     -
     -
     -
     - Yes
     -
   * - ks
     - Kashmir
     -
     -
     -
     - Yes
     -
   * - ps
     - Pashtu
     -
     -
     -
     - Yes
     -
   * - ru
     - Russian
     - DejaVu Sans, Liberation Sans, FreeSans, Sans
     -
     -
     - No
     - support dashes and hyphens properly
   * - ug
     - Uyghur
     - UKIJ Tuz Tom, Alkatip, Uyghur Ekran, Tahoma, Segoe UI, Microsoft Uighur
     -
     -
     - Yes
     -
   * - ur
     - Urdu
     - Nafees Nastalique, Nafees Web Naskh
     -
     -
     - Yes
     -
   * - vi
     - Vietnamese
     - Lucida Grande, Vu Phu Tho, `URWVN fonts <http://freshmeat.net/projects/urwvn/>`_, DejaVu Sans
     - None
     - No underline, no overline, change colour on hover
     - No
     - Arabic digits, comma is decimal separator, dot is thousands separator
   * - yi
     - Yiddish
     -
     -
     -
     - Yes
     -
   * - zh
     - Chinese
     -
     - 120%
     - Underline
     - No
     -
   * - fr
     - French
     - Arial
     -
     -
     - Yes
     -

.. _../pages/l10n/displaysettings#external_links:

External links
==============
* http://wiki.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software_2fFonts
